VC module (#138)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/research-software-support: modules/version-control/slides-version-control.md

</div>

note:
When collaborating you might have various versions (sets of changes) that co-exist at the same time on so called "branches". Modern version control software can usually automatically merge multiple changes into a single document.

===

<!-- .slide: data-state="standard" -->
## Merge conflicts

However, if multiple contributors work on the same thing...

```bash
This line contains a typos.
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" data-fragment-index="1" -->

... then "merge conflicts" may arise: 
<!-- .element: class="fragment" data-fragment-index="2" -->

```bash
<<<<<<< contributor1
This line contains typos.
=======
This line contains a typo.
>>>>>>> contributor2
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" data-fragment-index="2" -->

note:

> If changes are made to the same section (usually the same or consectutive line(s) of text) of a document a **conflict** aruises. Changes cannot be automatically merged, as the interpreter does not know which version or which combination to use. Human intervention is required and can involve rolling back a change, finding common ground between changes, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If changes are made to the same section (usually the same or consecutive line(s) of text) of a document a **conflict** arises. Changes cannot be automatically merged, as the interpreter does not know which version or which combination to use. Human intervention is required and can involve rolling back a change, finding common ground between changes, etc.
```

===

<!-- .slide: data-state="standard center" -->
## Avoiding merge conflicts

How to minimize creating merge conflicts:

- Communicate:
  - discuss who is working on what
  - agree on common standards such as formatting, (conflicting) style guides, linting rules, etc.
- Frequent merging:
  - Merge (small) changes back to the central repository often
  - Pull changes to your local repository regularly
- Organize changes:
  - use "feature branches" rather than making changes to the main document directly 

>   - avoid "scope creep" and instead create separate indepedent branches for isolated topics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - avoid "scope creep" and instead create separate independent branches for isolated topics
```
